- So those that have
seen bicep curl videos
or bicep curl pictures
know that we recommend
a very different type of curl than others.
Now, I do want to say before we get into
the curl discussion there's some people
who just don't do curls because they
really want to focus on
multi-joint movements
or more functional
movements, which is a very
over-used term. I mean,
the function of a muscle
is to shorten, so you can
define anything as functional.
But, they want to mimic the
things that they might do
in a sport, or, you know,
maybe they want to do things
that are called functional
by their CrossFit instructor
which may or may not be
true. So, let's move on
to the way we do curls. Now,
instead of a normal curl
position, so, a normal curl
position finishes like this.
You bring the bar almost up
to the bridge of your nose.
The problem with bringing
the bar right here
is if you look at the radius and ulna,
if you look at the lower
arm, it's perpendicular
to the ground. This is not the ground.
I know that, but, you know, the table's
perpendicular, or parallel to the ground.
So, when this happens,
the bicep is shut off.
So, you have a stimulus type situation,
or, in the intention where
you're turning the muscle on,
turning it off, turning
it on, turning it off,
it's a terrible stimulus.
You're not keeping
constant tension on the muscle.
So, they way to keep constant
tension on the muscle
is instead of doing this,
you do this.
So, you see how the biceps
that are very contracted position here,
whereas here it's not at all.
So, we get the highest tension,
and the hardest contraction right here.
So, the reason they call it drag curl
is 'cause, you're hovering the bar,
kind of dragging it up
the front of your body.
Now, as you do this, you're
engaging the posterior deltoid
right back here, but
also your traps kind of,
this muscle, the trapezius
kind of pushes your head
a little forward, and that's
normal. Your normal positioning
for a drag curl is the
head's going to come forward
a little bit just
because the bio-mechanics
require it to. Now, it
also turns the movement
into a multi-joint movement,
and what we know from research
is that multi-joint movements
stimulate more growth
than single-joint movements.
So, by getting another joint
involved, we're not only
really getting the posterior
deltoid, we're enabling the
body to see two joints moving,
maximizing the musculature
that could be involved.
You're going to handle more
weight, and you're going to
be able to stimulate more growth
and have all the associate
benefits of a multi-joint
movement and see incredible bicep growth.